EcologicalScience/ReadMe.md, before:

# Ecological Science

We give here some models from ecological science.

- [Ricker model](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ricker_model) is a discrete population model; we use the version described in [1] which adds some stochastic noise
- [Lotka-Volterra model](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lotka%E2%80%93Volterra_equations) is the standard prey-predator dynamic model, defined in terms of a coupled ODE; we implement the version described in Appendix T.10 in [2], where the ODE is integrated and observations are made at 10 evenly-spaced time points inside the integration interval. Both the number of preys and predators are observed, with an (optional) lognormal noise.
- EarthWorms models:  for now, we wrapped with ABCpy two of the five different models used in the paper [3]; these require using NetLogo (see [here](https://ccl.northwestern.edu/netlogo/)). Please check in the folder for more details.


[1] S. N. Wood. Statistical inference for noisy nonlinear ecological dynamic systems. Nature, 466(7310):1102–1104, Aug. 2010.

[2] Lueckmann, Jan-Matthis, et al. "Benchmarking Simulation-Based Inference." arXiv preprint arXiv:2101.04653 (2021), url https://arxiv.org/abs/2101.04653.

[3] van der Vaart, Elske, et al. "Calibration and evaluation of individual-based models using Approximate Bayesian Computation." Ecological Modelling 312 (2015): 182-190.

Commit message:

logpdf for Lotka-Volterra with lognormal observation noise

EcologicalScience/ReadMe.md, after:

# Ecological Science

We give here some models from ecological science.

- [Ricker model](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ricker_model) is a discrete population model; we use the version described in [1] which adds some stochastic noise
- [Lotka-Volterra model](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lotka%E2%80%93Volterra_equations) is the standard prey-predator dynamic model, defined in terms of a coupled ODE; we implement the version described in Appendix T.10 in [2], where the ODE is integrated and observations are made at 10 evenly-spaced time points inside the integration interval with a lognormal noise. Both the number of preys and predators are observed, with an (optional) lognormal noise. We also implement a logpdf calculation, which assumes lognormal observation noise. 
- EarthWorms models:  for now, we wrapped with ABCpy two of the five different models used in the paper [3]; these require using NetLogo (see [here](https://ccl.northwestern.edu/netlogo/)). Please check in the folder for more details.


[1] S. N. Wood. Statistical inference for noisy nonlinear ecological dynamic systems. Nature, 466(7310):1102–1104, Aug. 2010.

[2] Lueckmann, Jan-Matthis, et al. "Benchmarking Simulation-Based Inference." arXiv preprint arXiv:2101.04653 (2021), url https://arxiv.org/abs/2101.04653.

[3] van der Vaart, Elske, et al. "Calibration and evaluation of individual-based models using Approximate Bayesian Computation." Ecological Modelling 312 (2015): 182-190.
